
---
author: Johennie Helton
date: 2025-09-26
tags: [nfaf_example, EX03, back_translation, eu, google]
URL: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex:62017TJ0612
title: Document 62017TJ0612 -  Case T-612/17.
author_text: ECLI identifier: ECLI:EU:T:2021:763
copryright: public_domain (USA)
language: es_to_en
type: back_translation
length: 
publication_date: Judgment of the General Court (Ninth Chamber, Extended Composition) of 10 November 2021.
---

# Model_D Case T-612/17 (bktranslation en_to_es excerpt)

26

Nineteen complainants submitted comments in response to those letters. After analyzing those comments, the Commission informed Google on September 4, 2014, that it was not in a position to adopt a decision accepting the commitments pursuant to Article 9 of Regulation No. 1/2003.

27.

On April 15, 2015, the Commission returned to the infringement procedure provided for in Article 7(1) of Regulation No. 1/2003 and adopted a statement of objections addressed to Google, in which it provisionally concluded that the practices in question constituted an abuse of a dominant position and therefore infringed Article 102 TFEU.

28

On April 27, 2015, the Commission granted Google access to the file.

29

Between June and September 2015, the Commission sent a non-confidential version of the statement of objections to 24 complainants and 10 interested parties. Twenty complainants and seven interested parties submitted comments.

...

696

However, first, Google's conduct during the administrative procedure has already been examined as a possible mitigating circumstance and has been rejected as such.

697
Second, as already noted in paragraph 672 above, precedents in such matters are binding on the Commission only in comparable circumstances; the opposite certainly does not apply. In the present case, the case referred to by Google, which gave rise to the Commission's decision of October 15, 2014, relating to the proceedings initiated under Article 102 TFEU and Article 54 of the EEA Agreement (AT.39523 – Slovak Telekom), did not concern the same product markets or the same geographical area as those in the present case, and the practices identified were of a different nature, even though they were also exclusionary practices.

698

Thirdly, as is clear from point 30 of the Guidelines, the purpose of the increase in question is to ensure that fines have a deterrent effect on powerful undertakings with a particularly high turnover, beyond the sales of goods or services to which the infringement relates. For those undertakings, if the Commission were to calculate fines solely on the basis of the direct and indirect turnover of the product or service concerned, as provided for in the preceding points of the Guidelines, the level of the fine might be insufficient to have a deterrent effect, given the global activity and power of those undertakings (see, to that effect, the judgment of September 4, 2014, YKK and Others v. Commission, C‑408/12 P, EU:C:2014:2153, paragraphs 84 to 86 and 93).

699

In the present case, the Commission explained, in recital 753 of the contested decision, that Alphabet's turnover in 2016, which exceeded EUR 80 billion, clearly exceeded the revenue generated by its price comparison service and that, therefore, a multiplier of 1.3 was justified in order for the fine to have a sufficiently deterrent effect not only on Google but also on companies of a similar size.

700

The Court considers that approach to be justified and endorses it in the context of the exercise of its full jurisdiction. The value of sales recorded in 2016 for the services in question amounts to EUR 20,453,005,88, which is approximately forty times less than Alphabet's turnover mentioned in paragraph 699 above.

701

Following this assessment of the amount of the financial penalty imposed on Google, it does not appear necessary to amend it. Consequently, although the question of whether the Court of Justice could increase the penalty imposed in that decision in the absence of a claim to that effect was discussed at the hearing, it is not necessary to rule on that point.

702

It follows from the examination of the sixth plea that the amount of the fine imposed, which amounts to EUR 242,449,500, is confirmed. Since, as stated in recitals 735 and 736 of the contested decision, Alphabet has been jointly and severally liable with Google LLC since its creation on October 2, 2015, which is not disputed by them, it must also be confirmed that a fine of €24,244,950,000 is imposed on Google LLC, of which €5,235,180,000 is jointly and severally with Alphabet.

D. General conclusion

703

It follows from an examination of the first to fifth pleas (see paragraph 596 above) in support of the main claim that the Commission was correct in concluding, in Article 1 of the contested decision, that, by abusing its dominant position on the national markets for general search services, Google infringed Article 102 TFEU and Article 54 of the EEA Agreement in relation to the national markets for specialized search services in the 13 countries mentioned in paragraph 55 above, from various dates corresponding to the introduction of specialized product results or product advertisements on Google's general search results page. However, that article must be annulled in part, in so far as the Commission based its finding of the infringement on the effects of the abuse on the national markets for general search services in those 13 countries.

704

It follows from the examination of the sixth plea (see paragraph 702 above) that the amount of the fine imposed in the contested decision must be upheld. Consequently, the alternative claim for annulment or reduction of the fine must be rejected.
